---
layout: post
title:  "Favorite game developers"
date:   2024-10-05 14:09:00 +0200
categories: video games
share: false
author: jse
---

I am deeply convinced video games are not only entertainment, but also art. As a kid up until I became a young adult I used to read a lot of fantasy books about dwarves, trolls, elves, orcs, magicians and mythical creatures. Well, not entirely: My reading journey began with collecting as many Donald Duck comics as possible until I progressed to the Goosebumps series of R. L. Stine and many other youth book series until I ended up nagging my parents to get me another thick fanatasy book every week. I visited the local public library two to three times a week to get new reading material. For many school years I used to stay up until 2 am, because I could not put the books down. Thus, I always looked extremely tired at school.

While I was an avid reader, computer games became more and more my passion. And even though I did read far more books than I have played computer games in my life, the most memorable stories for me come from games. Especially, two games have made an everlasting impression on me regarding their story and atmosphere. Both games are developed **Supergiant Games**, which is a small american independent video game developer based in San Francisco. While their games share some art style, as they are developed using the same engine I assume, none of their games feels like the other. Each game has a distinct setting, atmosphere, universe, controls and plays different. Between each game you can clearly see that they are actively trying out completely new ideas and are successful doing so. The two most important standouts of their games are the incredible soundtrack composed by Darren Korb and sung by Ashley Barret and the way story-telling is incorporated.
Until today, listening to the soundtrack of their games, draws me back in into the story and characters they have created. **Transistor** is the first game I like to mention, which has a futuristic setting and is kind of a hybrid between an action role playing game and turn-based combat game. The protagonist is a red-haired singer trying to uncover the secrets behind a calamity that struck the world. She is carrying an usb-stick-esque sword, that also functions as a narrator. You slowly pick-up hints about what happened to the world as you progress and occasionally fight yourself through robot-like creatures.
As the protagonist is a singer and you often hear the beautiful voice accompany the gameplay and the sword-narrator fits excellently into the story. You become increasingly invested in both characters. Until today the soundtrack reminds me of the experiences and touches me.

The second game is such an odd contender for a great story-rich game as it is a sports-game. **Pyre** is probably their least-known game and it was jokingly presented as 'wizard basketball' game by them. The game has a fantasy setting with different and funny races. You basically act as a coach for a team of exiled fantasy creatures, each having a backstory that fits into the world. In between the 'basketball' matches the game plays like a visual novel. The world is at the brink of a political uprising or revolution as you have been thrown into a large landscape, that can only be left through winning the wizard-basketball championship. However, only one person is allowed to leave after your team has successfully won a championship.
You do not necessarily have to win the championships as the game progresses, but if you do you are tasked with difficult decisions - Which team member is going to leave the exile, potentially weakening the team? You have to consider how valuable each member is for winning matches, their personal backstories, desires and reasons to leave and come to a conclusion. Each member has different stats and abilities.
This unqiue setting creates high-stakes matches. Together with the outstanding soundtrack and well-written characters, this game is really great.

To be continued...